Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a crime, drama,
and thriller film called "Frailty."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Agent Wesley Doyle enters an F.B.I building,
passing an ambulance on his way in.
He makes his way up, and another agent, Griff,
tells him that a man carrying information
about a case Wesley is working on has arrived.
Wesley enters his office and greets the man
with a handshake.
The man reciprocates by handing Wesley a picture
of Wesley and his mother.
Wesley finds it odd that the man was poking
around on his desk, but the man says he has
been waiting for a while, saying he’s been
through Wesley’s plaques and citations,
as well as crime scene photos.
The man introduces himself as Fenton Meiks
and reveals that he believes his brother Adam
is the God’s hand killer.
Fenton begins narrating the events of the
previous night.
Fenton got a call from Adam.
The latter said that demons were taking over
the world, and he could no longer defeat them
by himself.
Fenton tried to calm Adam down, but Adam said
he needed Fenton to take him back to the rose
garden as Fenton had promised.
Adam then hanged up, headed to his study,
and shot himself in the head.
Back in the office, Wesley takes note of everything
Fenton says.
Fenton admits that he buried Adam in the rose
garden.
Wesley still doesn't think that Adam is the
God's Hand killer as Adam has never explicitly
said it.
Fenton says that there is a lot more to uncover
and that Wesley will fully understand everything
by the end of it.
Wesley calls the sheriff’s office, asking
if they know a man named Fenton Meiks.
The woman on the other line says Fenton was
present earlier.
He had apparently stolen an ambulance and
Adam’s body.
Wesley returns to the room and asks what Fenton
knows.
Fenton changes the subject, pointing to Wesley’s
photo, telling him that Wesley and his mother
have the same eyes.
Feeling frustrated, Wesley again asks what
makes Fenton think his brother is the God's
Hand killer.
Fenton tells another story of how everything
started in Thurman when he and his brother
were still young and living with their father.
The year was 1979.
A school bus dropped off a young Fenton and
Adam, and they made their way to a place called
Thurman Rose Garden.
Behind the garden was their home.
Fenton reveals that their mother died at childbirth
when she was in labor with Adam.
Due to their mother’s passing, Adam became
Fenton’s responsibility while their father,
Mr. Meiks, worked as a mechanic.
They lay in their beds, waiting for their
father to tuck them in.
Mr. Meiks comes in and bonds with them for
a while before kissing them good night.
Fenton stayed awake, looking at the light
in the ceiling, thinking things someone his
age shouldn't have to.
Suddenly, the bulb turned on, their father
came into the room and announced that he had
something to say.
He had a vision from God earlier that night.
He saw an angel in the form of a bright light
that talked to him about God's special purpose
for his family.
He told Fenton and Adam that the world was
ending.
There’s a war between angels and demons,
and they're the only ones that knew of it.
Adam voiced out that he's scared, and while
their father comforted him, Fenton silently
judged.
The angel bestowed upon them the title of
God's hand, and they're tasked to destroy
demons.
Fenton's reaction indicated that he didn't
believe and spoke out, saying none of it makes
sense.
Their father further romanticized this idea
of becoming superheroes destined to save the
world from demons.
They'll be blessed with three magical weapons
to help in killing the demons.
Adam was quickly captivated, while Fenton
remained doubtful.
Later, Fenton sat overwhelmed, tightly hugging
his pillow, bracing for impact as his happy
world turned upside down in a single night.
He felt alone, and the sinister stares of
his family cornered him to this dark state
in his life.
This haunted him for the following days.
On his way to work, Mr. Meiks had another
encounter with God.
He saw a ray of light that shined on a barn.
He made his way in and saw a pair of gloves
and an ax buried on a tree stump.
Days pass and Mr. Meiks brings the last of
the magical weapons.
He said it's only a matter of time before
the extermination begins, as they would soon
receive the first list of names.
While at work, Mr. Meiks checked the undercarriage
of the car.
He hallucinated, and everything around him
morphed into a cathedral.
An angel wielding a sword on fire approached
him.
He came to his senses and started writing
on a notepad.
The night arrived, Fenton and his father talked
about the mission God gave them.
As a final attempt to sway his father, Fenton
suggested that maybe all of this was just
a dream and that there was something wrong
inside his head.
Mr. Meiks disagreed and brought out the list
of names.
At that moment, Fenton finally accepted that
this was his new reality.
Adam approached his father, saying that God
gave him a list as well.
Mr. Meiks read out the name of Adam's bully;
he made Adam tell the truth and taught him
a lesson about not making things up.
The frustration in Fenton's eyes was evident
as he's the only one that noticed the irony
behind all of this.
Fenton stood near the sheriff's station.
He felt conflicted because he was close to
waking his family up from the nightmare they're
in.
However, he chose to run from the responsibility
of putting his father into prison.
Late at night, the brothers lay down on their
beds, and they talk about their’s fathers
obsession with demons.
Fenton said it's all make-believe, but Adam
disagrees.
Fenton tried his best to persuade Adam to
run away with him.
Adam smiled at his brother's proposition,
and the conversation ended.
Fenton woke up in the middle of the night
and saw his father carrying a body bag over
his shoulders.
His bloody father brought home a tied-up woman.
He invited the two inside the shed to witness
what he was about to do.
The woman was filled with fear and confusion.
Mr. Meiks gets the ax, and Fenton pleaded
for his father to stop.
However, he was determined to act out the
will of God.
Mr. Meiks grabbed the woman’s arm and felt
the demon hiding beneath the human facade.
He swung the ax and murdered the woman in
front of his children.
Mr. Meiks and Adam worked together to bury
their victim while Fenton cried.
Mr. Meiks comforted Fenton by saying that
he would start to understand everything when
they hunt down more demons.
In the present day, Wesley asks where Fenton's
father is, to which he replies that he's long
dead.
Fenton says that his father believes he’s
liberating the world from the demons and not
committing murder.
Fenton admits that he didn't tell on his father
because he was still a child and was terrified.
To further prove that Adam is the God's Hand
killer, he reveals that he knows where the
bodies are.
Wesley cuffs Fenton before they ride off to
the rose garden.
They converse more in the vehicle, talking
about how one can carry that heavy a secret
for so long.
Fenton changes the topic and again brings
up the picture of Wesley and his mom.
This time around, Wesley opens up to Fenton,
saying that a few days after that picture
was taken, his mom was murdered.
They never found the killer, and Fenton hypothesizes
that this is why Wesley took on the case.
Wesley gets tired of getting questioned and
asks Fenton why he keeps changing the subject,
accusing him of hiding something.
A month passed since the night of the first
murder.
The brothers acted like normal children again,
but no amount of time could fade the stain
on their innocence.
They entered the house and asked about the
parked van outside.
Their father said they need it for hunting
demons while holding the dreaded notepad.
They waited outside a store to abduct their
next victim.
Fenton argued that it's too risky to do this
in broad daylight, but Mr. Meiks said God
would blind anyone from seeing what they would
do.
The man exited the store, and they initiated
the plan despite Fenton not wanting to do
so.
Fenton acted out a scene remarkably well,
convincing the man that his imaginary dog
was stuck underneath the car.
The man kneeled, and Mr. Meiks struck him
from behind.
They took him to the shed, where Mr. Meiks
touched the man, and appears to have a vision
of the man’s sins.
He then takes the man’s life.
Fenton revisited the idea of running away
with Adam.
However, Adam still refused, justifying his
father's murders by bestowing him the title
of a demon slayer.
Adam left Fenton and planned to snitch on
Fenton to their father.
Mr. Meiks entered the boys’ room, only waking
Fenton up.
He confronted Fenton about what he and Adam
talked about.
His father invited him outside to try and
change his mind.
He commanded him to dig a hole and expects
him to be done halfway by the time he gets
home.
Fenton argued that's not possible, and his
father said that anything’s possible with
God.
He dug the hole by his own sheer will.
He despised God and the angels because of
what they did to his father.
Adam gave him a glass of water as he made
good progress with the hole.
The two talked for a while, and they end up
fighting.
Fenton stood there all sweaty and tired, worried
about his brainwashed brother.
This went on for five more days until the
hole became as deep as Fenton's hatred for
God.
In the following days, they constructed a
dungeon underneath the shed.
Fenton still acted coldly even after the time
they spent together working.
Another person became their unfortunate victim.
However, this time, Mr. Meiks instructed Fenton
to kill him.
Fenton ran away and arrived at the sheriff's
station.
The station is unattended, so he ran to the
sheriff’s house.
He told his story, but the sheriff didn’t
believe him.
As he was about to call Fenton's father, Fenton
shouted out that he had proof.
Mr. Meiks invited the sheriff inside.
His father apologized for the trouble Fenton
had caused.
Mr. Meiks convincingly made up lies to remove
any suspicion.
However, being this close to putting a stop
to his father's murders, Fenton pleaded for
the sheriff to at least check the shed.
His father agreed and looked menacingly in
Fenton's way.
They opened the shed, and Fenton and the sheriff
made their way down the cellar finding nothing.
The sheriff looked at him disappointed and
climbed up the stairs.
Suddenly, Fenton heard an ax hitting flesh,
and down came the sheriff, all bloody and
disoriented.
His father sinisterly stepped down and swung
his ax, killing his first victim that's not
on the list.
He felt sick and puked.
Mr. Meiks' head was all sorts of messed up
as he claimed that this is the first innocent
man he had killed.
He even blamed Fenton for it.
Fenton called him crazy, and the rage built
up inside his father almost cost him his life.
Luckily, Adam stopped him just in time.
The two cry while an unfazed Fenton looked
at his father with disgust.
Mr. Meiks invited Fenton to the shed.
He commanded Fenton to come in and shut the
door behind him.
He asked Fenton if he's afraid of him, and
he nodded in agreement.
His father said that the angel told him that
Fenton's a demon, but he didn’t believe
it.
Mr. Meiks stated that his love for Fenton
is even greater than that of his faith.
His father then said he's the one that's afraid
of Fenton and opened the cellar hatch.
Fenton tried to escape, but he got overpowered
easily.
He left him there and nailed down the hatch.
Adam entered the shed to wake Fenton up.
He pleaded for Adam to help him, but his loyalty
to his deranged dad was steadfast.
Adam said he'll probably be out of there in
a week, leaving a furious Fenton banging on
the hatch.
On the seventh day, Mr. Meiks opened the hatch
and asked Fenton if he had spoken to God.
Fenton's fortitude remained strong as he replied
that there’s no God.
His father locked him in again.
Time passed, Fenton finally saw a vision from
God, and there he realized what his mission
was.
One day, Fenton stopped answering.
He was unconscious on the steps and got carried
out by his father.
He gained consciousness and told his father
that he spoke to God.
Mr. Meiks felt relieved to see his son finally
accepting God's will.
They apologized to one another and talked
about plans to catch Fenton's first demon.
The night of the abduction came.
The two approached their victim’s home,
and Mr. Meiks knocked on the door.
They asked for a spare tire, but their conversation
got interrupted by the man's wife; he angrily
cusses her out.
They followed him to his garage to retrieve
a spare tire.
Just as his father was about to hit the man,
the man realized what they're doing and struck
first.
However, Fenton came to the rescue and hit
the man, allowing his father to knock him
out.
At the cellar, Fenton had the ax in his hand
and shared a sentimental moment with his father.
Mr. Meiks touched the demon and commanded
Fenton to destroy him.
Fenton lifted the ax, and at the apex of the
swing, he aimed it toward his father's chest.
Adam rushed to help his dying father.
He whispered in Adam's ears with his final
breath.
Fenton removed the duct tape from the man's
mouth.
The man screamed as Adam rushed to finish
him off with an ax.
Back in the present, Fenton becomes emotional
as he remembers that dreadful day.
Wesley is the first person he has spoken to
about this.
They sit in complete silence as Fenton doesn't
want to continue the conversation anymore.
They arrive at their destination, and Fenton
leads him to where the bodies are located.
He recoups his calm manner and continues to
share about what happened next during that
night.
Fenton dug up a ditch and asked Adam to promise
that if he ever kills him, he'll bury him
in the garden.
Wesley is puzzled; he says it doesn't make
sense as Adam is the one that Fenton buried.
To his surprise, Fenton reveals himself to
be Adam Meiks.
He says to Wesley that he'll understand everything
soon enough and leads him to where he buried
Fenton.
They arrive at the spot, and Adam kneels to
reminisce about how his father failed to destroy
the demon that is his brother.
This is why he took the responsibility to
hunt Fenton down himself.
Fenton took on the alias God’s Hand because
he knew this would catch Adam’s attention.
He left him notes through his victims, eventually
leading Adam to him.
It is revealed that Adam entered Fenton's
unlocked home, and Fenton sat as he waited
for him.
He uttered Adam's name, prepared to meet his
fate.
Adam shares to Wesley that he believes everything
his father has ever told them.
He sees the same visions and the actual demons
that reside in the human shell.
Wesley points a gun at Adam, but he doesn’t
flinch.
Instead, he taunts Wesley by saying that catching
him won't bring his mother back.
Wesley attacks Adam but gets overpowered.
Adam gets a hold of him, and Adam sees a vision
of Wesley murdering his mother.
He then whispers to Wesley that he is on his
list.
Adam proceeds to uncuff himself and carries
Wesley into his ditch.
He grabs hold of his trusted ax, crossing
another name off his list.
Back at the office, the investigation begins,
and officers interrogate Griff about Adam.
However, Griff seems to have forgotten Adam’s
face.
All the surveillance footage has problems,
and the only trace they have of Adam is the
name he gave them, which is Fenton Meiks.
F.B.I. enters the Fenton's home, and Griff
sees a list pinned on the board with Wesley
Doyle's name crossed out.
Griff walks into the sheriff's station, and
a woman greets him.
He asks for the sheriff, and the sheriff is
revealed to be Adam.
Griff doesn't seem to remember him at all
and proceeds to ask questions about Fenton.